website/src/index.md, before:

---
pageType: home

hero:
  image:
    src:
      light: /logo-light.svg
      dark: /logo-dark.svg
    alt: Rock logo
  name: React Native framework for Enterprise scale
  tagline: Easy to adopt. Simple to scale. Built for flexibility from day one
  actions:
    - theme: brand
      text: Learn more
      link: /docs/getting-started/introduction
    - theme: alt
      text: Quick start
      link: /docs/getting-started/index
features:
  - title: Brand New CLI
    details: A familiar CLI experience with end-to-end development, and build workflows. Get started in minutes
    icon: <img src="/arrow-bar-right.svg" />
  - title: Reusable Cloud Builds
    details: Reliable caching of native artifacts (APK, IPA) which you can store where you like, or use our out-of-the-box integrations with GitHub, S3, and R2
    icon: <img src="/cloud.svg" />
  - title: GitHub Action
    details: All the logic for downloading, uploading and building native build artifacts for iOS (APP, IPA) and Android (APK, AAB)
    icon: <img src="/github.svg" />
  - title: Plug-n-Play Brownfield
    details: Package your React Native app as a framework and add to your iOS and Android apps as you would any other library
    icon: <img src="/radio-handheld.svg" />
  - title: Bundler of Choice
    details: Rock supports both Metro and Re.Pack to bundle JS. With Re.Pack you can build Super Apps and Mobile Microfrontends
    icon: <img src="/arrow-up-box.svg" />
  - title: Plugins
    details: Built in a modular way, Rock allows you to extend its capabilities via plugins that integrate with CLI and native templates
    icon: <img src="/add-grid.svg" />
---

Commit message:

feat: update website, docs and readme (#598)
* website: update wording to emphasize Rock's strengths

* changeset

* update readme

* chore: tweaks

* chore: tweaks

* chore: tweaks

* chore: tweaks

* chore: tweaks

* fix links

* update

* update

* fix

* fix

* add local cache

* add bundler of choice

* at your own pace

* tagline

* update cli.png

* update

* update

* update lock

---------

Co-authored-by: Michał Pierzchała <thymikee@gmail.com>

website/src/index.md, after:

---
pageType: home

hero:
  image:
    src:
      light: /logo-light.svg
      dark: /logo-dark.svg
    alt: Rock logo
  name: Build faster, ship everywhere
  tagline: Rock is a modular toolkit for teams building React Native apps. It helps improve build times and developer experience while fitting into your existing workflows and infrastructure.
  actions:
    - theme: brand
      text: Learn more
      link: /docs/introduction
    - theme: alt
      text: Get Started
      link: /docs/getting-started
features:
  - title: Remote build cache
    details: Save up to 96% of build time by reusing native artifacts (APK, AAB, APP, IPA) across machines and CI. Use built‑in integrations for GitHub, S3, and R2 or bring your own storage.
    icon: <img src="/cloud.svg" />
  - title: Brownfield ready
    details: Add React Native to existing iOS and Android apps using Rock Brownfield and use it as any other library.
    icon: <img src="/radio-handheld.svg" />
  - title: Modular & extensible
    details: A plugin‑driven architecture that lets you customize platforms, bundlers, cache providers, and more.
    icon: <img src="/add-grid.svg" />
  - title: Cross‑platform ready
    details: iOS and Android by default; designed to extend to TVs, macOS, and Windows (coming soon).
    icon: <img src="/layout-columns.svg" />
  - title: Easy Community CLI migration
    details: A familiar CLI that helps you develop, run, and build your app. Integrates with Remote Build Cache. Migrate from Community CLI in minutes.
    icon: <img src="/arrow-bar-right.svg" />
  - title: Bundler of choice
    details: Rock supports both Metro and Re.Pack to bundle JS. With Re.Pack you can build Super Apps and Mobile Microfrontends.
    icon: <img src="/arrow-up-box.svg" />
---
