website/src/docs/brownfield/android.mdx, before:

import { PackageManagerTabs } from 'rspress/theme';

# Integrating with Android Apps

React Native Enterprise Framework helps you package your React Native code into files that your iOS and Android apps can use. For Android, it creates an `.aar` file that you can easily add to your app.

To add React Native to your Android app, we'll package your React Native code into an AAR. This way, you don't need to set up Node.js in your main app. Here's how to do it:

## 1. Create a New Android Library Module

First, we'll create a new Android library module in your React Native project. This module will contain your React Native UI and provide APIs for loading it in your native Android app.

1. Open your React Native project's `android` folder in Android Studio
1. Go to File → New Module → Android Library
   ![Create new module in Android Studio](./assets/create_module.png)
1. After the sync completes, run your React Native app to make sure everything works
1. Test the build by running `./gradlew assembleRelease` in the android directory

## 2. Set Up the AAR Gradle Plugin

We need a special Gradle plugin to create an AAR that includes all dependencies. We'll use the [brownfield-gradle-plugin](https://github.com/callstack/react-native-brownfield/tree/main/gradle-plugins/react) by callstack.

1. Add the gradle plugin dependency to your `android/build.gradle`:

   ```groovy title="android/build.gradle" {3-10,15}
   buildscript {
       repositories {
           google()
           mavenCentral()
       }
       dependencies {
           classpath("com.callstack.react:brownfield-gradle-plugin:0.4.0") // check the latest version
       }
   }
   ```

1. Add the plugin to your `rnbrownfield/build.gradle.kts`:

   ```groovy title="rnbrownfield/build.gradle.kts" {5}
   plugins {
       id("com.android.library")
       id("org.jetbrains.kotlin.android")
       id("com.facebook.react")
       id("com.callstack.react.brownfield")
   }
   ```

1. Add autolinking setup to the `react` block in `rnbrownfield/build.gradle.kts`:

   ```groovy title="rnbrownfield/build.gradle.kts" {1,3}
   react {
       autolinkLibrariesWithApp()
   }
   ```

1. Run `./gradlew assembleRelease` to verify the setup

   ![Verify AAR plugin setup](./assets/verify_aar_plugin_setup.png)

## 3. Add React Native Dependencies

Add the required React Native dependencies to your `rnbrownfield/build.gradle.kts`:

```groovy title="rnbrownfield/build.gradle.kts" {2-3}
dependencies {
    api("com.facebook.react:react-android:0.77.0")
    api("com.facebook.react:hermes-android:0.77.0")
}
```

After adding these, sync your project and run `./gradlew assembleRelease` to verify everything works.

## 4. Add React Native Brownfield

Here we add the `react-native-brownfield` library to help us with APIs required to initialize and present react-native views.

<PackageManagerTabs command="install @callstack/react-native-brownfield" />

## 5. Create React Native Host Manager

Create a new file called `ReactNativeHostManager.kt` in your `rnbrownfield` module:

```kotlin
package com.callstack.rnbrownfield // If you used a different package name when creating the library, change it here

import android.app.Application
import com.callstack.reactnativebrownfield.OnJSBundleLoaded
import com.callstack.reactnativebrownfield.ReactNativeBrownfield
import com.facebook.react.PackageList
import com.facebook.react.ReactNativeApplicationEntryPoint.loadReactNative

object ReactNativeHostManager {
    fun initialize(application: Application, onJSBundleLoaded: OnJSBundleLoaded? = null) {
        loadReactNative(application) // Only required if you're on RN version >= 0.80.0

        val packageList = PackageList(application).packages
        ReactNativeBrownfield.initialize(application, packageList, onJSBundleLoaded)
    }
}
```
Here, we wrap the `react-native-brownfield` API in our own `ReactNativeHostManager` so that the native App only have to pass an
`Application` instance and not interact with any react-native API directly. [See more](https://github.com/callstack/react-native-brownfield/blob/main/docs/GUIDELINES.md)


## 6. Populate Build Config:

Add build configuration fields:

```groovy title="rnbrownfield/build.gradle.kts" {4-5}
android {
    defaultConfig {
        minSdk = 24

        buildConfigField("boolean", "IS_NEW_ARCHITECTURE_ENABLED", properties["newArchEnabled"].toString())
        buildConfigField("boolean", "IS_HERMES_ENABLED", properties["hermesEnabled"].toString())
    }
}
```

## 7. Configure Maven Publishing

Add the Maven publish plugin to your `rnbrownfield/build.gradle.kts`:

```groovy title="rnbrownfield/build.gradle.kts" {6}
plugins {
    id("com.android.library")
    id("org.jetbrains.kotlin.android")
    id("com.facebook.react")
    id("com.callstack.react.brownfield")
    `maven-publish`
}
```

Configure the publishing settings:

```groovy title="rnbrownfield/build.gradle.kts"
import groovy.json.JsonOutput
import groovy.json.JsonSlurper

publishing {
    publications {
        create<MavenPublication>("mavenAar") {
            groupId = "com.callstack"
            artifactId = "rnbrownfield"
            version = "0.0.1-local"
            afterEvaluate {
                from(components.getByName("default"))
            }

            pom {
                withXml {
                    /**
                     * As a result of `from(components.getByName("default")` all of the project
                     * dependencies are added to `pom.xml` file. We do not need the react-native
                     * third party dependencies to be a part of it as we embed those dependencies.
                     */
                    val dependenciesNode = (asNode().get("dependencies") as groovy.util.NodeList).first() as groovy.util.Node
                    dependenciesNode.children()
                        .filterIsInstance<groovy.util.Node>()
                        .filter { (it.get("groupId") as groovy.util.NodeList).text() == rootProject.name }
                        .forEach { dependenciesNode.remove(it) }
                }
            }
        }
    }

    repositories {
        mavenLocal() // Publishes to the local Maven repository (~/.m2/repository by default)
    }
}

val moduleBuildDir: Directory = layout.buildDirectory.get()

/**
 * As a result of `from(components.getByName("default")` all of the project
 * dependencies are added to `module.json` file. We do not need the react-native
 * third party dependencies to be a part of it as we embed those dependencies.
 */
tasks.register("removeDependenciesFromModuleFile") {
    doLast {
        file("$moduleBuildDir/publications/mavenAar/module.json").run {
            val json = inputStream().use { JsonSlurper().parse(it) as Map<String, Any> }
            (json["variants"] as? List<MutableMap<String, Any>>)?.forEach { variant ->
                (variant["dependencies"] as? MutableList<Map<String, Any>>)?.removeAll { it["group"] == rootProject.name }
            }
            writer().use { it.write(JsonOutput.prettyPrint(JsonOutput.toJson(json))) }
        }
    }
}

tasks.named("generateMetadataFileForMavenAarPublication") {
   finalizedBy("removeDependenciesFromModuleFile")
}
```

## 8. Extra steps for Expo CLI and Expo Modules

1. Make `ReactNativeHostManager` aware with expo modules:
```diff
@@ -11,6 +11,8 @@ import com.facebook.react.defaults.DefaultReactHost.getDefaultReactHost
 import com.facebook.react.defaults.DefaultReactNativeHost
 import com.facebook.react.soloader.OpenSourceMergedSoMapping
 import com.facebook.soloader.SoLoader
+import expo.modules.ApplicationLifecycleDispatcher
+import expo.modules.ReactNativeHostWrapper
 
 class ReactNativeHostManager {
     companion object {
@@ -37,21 +39,23 @@ class ReactNativeHostManager {
             // If you opted-in for the New Architecture, we load the native entry point for this app.
             load()
         }
+        ApplicationLifecycleDispatcher.onApplicationCreate(application)


        /**
         * If your project is using ExpoModules, you can use `index` instead.
         *
         * Below module name is used when your project is using Expo CLI
         */
+        val jsMainModuleName = ".expo/.virtual-metro-entry"
 
         val reactApp = object : ReactApplication {
-            override val reactNativeHost: ReactNativeHost = object : DefaultReactNativeHost(application) {
+            override val reactNativeHost: ReactNativeHost = ReactNativeHostWrapper(application,
+                object : DefaultReactNativeHost(application) {
                     override fun getPackages(): MutableList<ReactPackage> {
                         return PackageList(application).packages
                     }
 
-                    override fun getJSMainModuleName(): String = "index"
+                    override fun getJSMainModuleName(): String = jsMainModuleName
                     override fun getBundleAssetName(): String = "index.android.bundle"
 
                     override fun getUseDeveloperSupport() = BuildConfig.DEBUG
 
                     override val isNewArchEnabled: Boolean = BuildConfig.IS_NEW_ARCHITECTURE_ENABLED
                     override val isHermesEnabled: Boolean = BuildConfig.IS_HERMES_ENABLED
-                }
+                })
 
             override val reactHost: ReactHost
                 get() = getDefaultReactHost(application, reactNativeHost)
```

2. Update your `rnbrownfield/build.gradle`:

```diff

+ reactBrownfield {
    /**
     * This will be available from `com.callstack.react.brownfield` version > 3.0.0
     * It takes care of linking expo dependencies like expo-image with your AAR module.
     *
     * Default value is false.
     */
+     isExpo = true
+ }

react {
    autolinkLibrariesWithApp()
}

@@ -76,6 +76,18 @@ dependencies {
     androidTestImplementation("androidx.test.espresso:espresso-core:3.6.1")
 }
 
/**
* This function is used in the places where we:
*
* Remove the `expo` dependency from the `module.json` and `pom.xml file. Otherwise, the
* gradle will try to resolve this and will throw an error, since this dependency won't
* be available from a remote repository.
*
* Your AAR does not need this dependency.
*/
+ fun isExpoArtifact(group: String, artifactId: String): Boolean {
+     return group == "host.exp.exponent" && artifactId == "expo"
+ }
 
 publishing {
     publications {
@@ -97,7 +109,12 @@ publishing {
                     val dependenciesNode = (asNode().get("dependencies") as groovy.util.NodeList).first() as groovy.util.Node
                     dependenciesNode.children()
                         .filterIsInstance<groovy.util.Node>()
-                        .filter { (it.get("groupId") as groovy.util.NodeList).text() == rootProject.name }
+                        .filter {
+                            val artifactId = (it["artifactId"] as groovy.util.NodeList).text()
+                            val group = (it["groupId"] as groovy.util.NodeList).text()
+
+                            (isExpoArtifact(group, artifactId) || group == rootProject.name)
+                        }
                         .forEach { dependenciesNode.remove(it) }
                 }
             }
@@ -121,7 +138,12 @@ tasks.register("removeDependenciesFromModuleFile") {
         file("$moduleBuildDir/publications/mavenAar/module.json").run {
             val json = inputStream().use { JsonSlurper().parse(it) as Map<String, Any> }
             (json["variants"] as? List<MutableMap<String, Any>>)?.forEach { variant ->
-                (variant["dependencies"] as? MutableList<Map<String, Any>>)?.removeAll { it["group"] == rootProject.name }
+                (variant["dependencies"] as? MutableList<Map<String, Any>>)?.removeAll {
+                    val module = it["module"] as String
+                    val group = it["group"] as String
+
+                    (isExpoArtifact(group, module) || group == rootProject.name)
+                }
             }
             writer().use { it.write(JsonOutput.prettyPrint(JsonOutput.toJson(json))) }
         }
```

That is all you need to change. Step 8.i is not required with Expo, you can skip it. See Step 8.ii to generate AAR.

## 9.i Set up RNEF for AAR generation (not required for Expo)

1. Add `@rnef/plugin-brownfield-android` to your dependencies
1. Update your `rnef.config.mjs`:

   ```js title="rnef.config.mjs"
   import { pluginBrownfieldAndroid } from '@rnef/plugin-brownfield-android';

   export default {
     plugins: [pluginBrownfieldAndroid()],
   };
   ```

1. Run this command to generate the final AAR:

   ```sh title="Terminal"
   rnef package:aar --variant Release --module-name rnbrownfield
   ```

1. Once the AAR is created, publish it to local Maven registry to be consumable by the native app:

   ```sh title="Terminal"
   rnef publish-local:aar --module-name rnbrownfield
   ```

## 9.ii Generate AAR when using Expo

Here you can see how to generate AAR. The link uses a script which first builds the AAR and then publish to to `mavenLocal`.
[see here](https://github.com/callstackincubator/modern-brownfield-ref/blob/b23641f3ff7c278743d35013841d5494905ba190/package.json#L14)

## 10. Add the AAR to Your Android App

> Note: You'll need an existing Android app or create a new one in Android Studio.

1. Add `mavenLocal()` to your app's dependency resolution in `settings.gradle.kts`:

   ```groovy title="settings.gradle.kts" {3}
    dependencyResolutionManagement {
        repositories {
            mavenLocal()
        }
    }
   ```

2. Add the dependency to your app's `build.gradle.kts`:

   ```groovy title="build.gradle.kts" {2}
   dependencies {
       implementation("com.callstack:rnbrownfield:0.0.1-local")
   }
   ```

3. Initialize React Native in your `MainActivity`:

   ```kotlin
   import com.callstack.rnbrownfield.ReactNativeHostManager

   class MainActivity : AppCompatActivity() {
       override fun onCreate(savedInstanceState: Bundle?) {
           super.onCreate(savedInstanceState)
           ReactNativeHostManager.initialize(this.application) {
                println("JS bundle loaded")
           }
           // ... rest of your onCreate code
       }
   }
   ```

## 11. Show the React Native UI

Add a button to your `activity_main.xml`:

```xml
<Button
    android:id="@+id/show_rn_app_btn"
    android:layout_width="wrap_content"
    android:layout_height="wrap_content"
    android:text="Show RN App"
    app:layout_constraintBottom_toBottomOf="parent"
    app:layout_constraintEnd_toEndOf="parent"
    app:layout_constraintStart_toStartOf="parent"
    app:layout_constraintTop_toTopOf="parent" />
```

Update your `MainActivity` to show the fragment:

```kotlin {2,8-13}
import com.callstack.rnbrownfield.ReactNativeHostManager
import com.callstack.reactnativebrownfield.ReactNativeFragment

class MainActivity : AppCompatActivity() {
    private lateinit var showRNAppBtn: Button

    override fun onCreate(savedInstanceState: Bundle?) {
        super.onCreate(savedInstanceState)
        ReactNativeHostManager.initialize(this.application) {
            println("JS bundle loaded")
        }

        val rnAppFragment = ReactNativeFragment.createReactNativeFragment("BrownFieldTest")
        showRNAppBtn = findViewById(R.id.show_rn_app_btn)
        showRNAppBtn.setOnClickListener {
            supportFragmentManager
                .beginTransaction()
                .replace(R.id.fragmentContainer, rnAppFragment)
                .commit()
        }
    }
}
```

Now you can run your app and test the React Native integration!

<hr/>

Optional:

If you want to get react-native in a View instead of a Fragment, you can use the following API:

```kt
val rnView = ReactNativeBrownfield.shared.createView(this.applicationContext, this, "BrownFieldTest")
```

The above returns a FrameLayout, which can be used to present RN as a View. This is most suited in situations where you want to present individual pieces of
react-native UI. For eg, if you're building a native design system library in react-native OR you want to export say a Card component to share between react-native
and the native App.

<hr/>

> Note: `brownfield-gradle-plugin` copies `.so` files to the `lib` folder. Make sure to add `**/*.so` to your .gitignore file, as to not commit these .so files. The reason is they are auto-generated each time.

Commit message:

docs: add Note for RN >= 0.80.0

website/src/docs/brownfield/android.mdx, after:

import { PackageManagerTabs } from 'rspress/theme';

# Integrating with Android Apps

React Native Enterprise Framework helps you package your React Native code into files that your iOS and Android apps can use. For Android, it creates an `.aar` file that you can easily add to your app.

To add React Native to your Android app, we'll package your React Native code into an AAR. This way, you don't need to set up Node.js in your main app. Here's how to do it:

## 1. Create a New Android Library Module

First, we'll create a new Android library module in your React Native project. This module will contain your React Native UI and provide APIs for loading it in your native Android app.

1. Open your React Native project's `android` folder in Android Studio
1. Go to File → New Module → Android Library
   ![Create new module in Android Studio](./assets/create_module.png)
1. After the sync completes, run your React Native app to make sure everything works
1. Test the build by running `./gradlew assembleRelease` in the android directory

## 2. Set Up the AAR Gradle Plugin

We need a special Gradle plugin to create an AAR that includes all dependencies. We'll use the [brownfield-gradle-plugin](https://github.com/callstack/react-native-brownfield/tree/main/gradle-plugins/react) by callstack.

1. Add the gradle plugin dependency to your `android/build.gradle`:

   ```groovy title="android/build.gradle" {3-10,15}
   buildscript {
       repositories {
           google()
           mavenCentral()
       }
       dependencies {
           classpath("com.callstack.react:brownfield-gradle-plugin:0.4.0") // check the latest version
       }
   }
   ```

1. Add the plugin to your `rnbrownfield/build.gradle.kts`:

   ```groovy title="rnbrownfield/build.gradle.kts" {5}
   plugins {
       id("com.android.library")
       id("org.jetbrains.kotlin.android")
       id("com.facebook.react")
       id("com.callstack.react.brownfield")
   }
   ```

1. Add autolinking setup to the `react` block in `rnbrownfield/build.gradle.kts`:

   ```groovy title="rnbrownfield/build.gradle.kts" {1,3}
   react {
       autolinkLibrariesWithApp()
   }
   ```

1. Run `./gradlew assembleRelease` to verify the setup

   ![Verify AAR plugin setup](./assets/verify_aar_plugin_setup.png)

## 3. Add React Native Dependencies

Add the required React Native dependencies to your `rnbrownfield/build.gradle.kts`:

```groovy title="rnbrownfield/build.gradle.kts" {2-3}
dependencies {
    api("com.facebook.react:react-android:0.77.0")
    api("com.facebook.react:hermes-android:0.77.0")
}
```

After adding these, sync your project and run `./gradlew assembleRelease` to verify everything works.

## 4. Add React Native Brownfield

Here we add the `react-native-brownfield` library to help us with APIs required to initialize and present react-native views.

<PackageManagerTabs command="install @callstack/react-native-brownfield" />

## 5. Create React Native Host Manager

Create a new file called `ReactNativeHostManager.kt` in your `rnbrownfield` module:

> Note: The `loadReactNative` call is only required if you're on RN version >= 0.80.0

```kotlin
package com.callstack.rnbrownfield // If you used a different package name when creating the library, change it here

import android.app.Application
import com.callstack.reactnativebrownfield.OnJSBundleLoaded
import com.callstack.reactnativebrownfield.ReactNativeBrownfield
import com.facebook.react.PackageList
import com.facebook.react.ReactNativeApplicationEntryPoint.loadReactNative

object ReactNativeHostManager {
    fun initialize(application: Application, onJSBundleLoaded: OnJSBundleLoaded? = null) {
        loadReactNative(application) // Only required if you're on RN version >= 0.80.0

        val packageList = PackageList(application).packages
        ReactNativeBrownfield.initialize(application, packageList, onJSBundleLoaded)
    }
}
```
Here, we wrap the `react-native-brownfield` API in our own `ReactNativeHostManager` so that the native App only have to pass an
`Application` instance and not interact with any react-native API directly. [See more](https://github.com/callstack/react-native-brownfield/blob/main/docs/GUIDELINES.md)


## 6. Populate Build Config:

Add build configuration fields:

```groovy title="rnbrownfield/build.gradle.kts" {4-5}
android {
    defaultConfig {
        minSdk = 24

        buildConfigField("boolean", "IS_NEW_ARCHITECTURE_ENABLED", properties["newArchEnabled"].toString())
        buildConfigField("boolean", "IS_HERMES_ENABLED", properties["hermesEnabled"].toString())
    }
}
```

## 7. Configure Maven Publishing

Add the Maven publish plugin to your `rnbrownfield/build.gradle.kts`:

```groovy title="rnbrownfield/build.gradle.kts" {6}
plugins {
    id("com.android.library")
    id("org.jetbrains.kotlin.android")
    id("com.facebook.react")
    id("com.callstack.react.brownfield")
    `maven-publish`
}
```

Configure the publishing settings:

```groovy title="rnbrownfield/build.gradle.kts"
import groovy.json.JsonOutput
import groovy.json.JsonSlurper

publishing {
    publications {
        create<MavenPublication>("mavenAar") {
            groupId = "com.callstack"
            artifactId = "rnbrownfield"
            version = "0.0.1-local"
            afterEvaluate {
                from(components.getByName("default"))
            }

            pom {
                withXml {
                    /**
                     * As a result of `from(components.getByName("default")` all of the project
                     * dependencies are added to `pom.xml` file. We do not need the react-native
                     * third party dependencies to be a part of it as we embed those dependencies.
                     */
                    val dependenciesNode = (asNode().get("dependencies") as groovy.util.NodeList).first() as groovy.util.Node
                    dependenciesNode.children()
                        .filterIsInstance<groovy.util.Node>()
                        .filter { (it.get("groupId") as groovy.util.NodeList).text() == rootProject.name }
                        .forEach { dependenciesNode.remove(it) }
                }
            }
        }
    }

    repositories {
        mavenLocal() // Publishes to the local Maven repository (~/.m2/repository by default)
    }
}

val moduleBuildDir: Directory = layout.buildDirectory.get()

/**
 * As a result of `from(components.getByName("default")` all of the project
 * dependencies are added to `module.json` file. We do not need the react-native
 * third party dependencies to be a part of it as we embed those dependencies.
 */
tasks.register("removeDependenciesFromModuleFile") {
    doLast {
        file("$moduleBuildDir/publications/mavenAar/module.json").run {
            val json = inputStream().use { JsonSlurper().parse(it) as Map<String, Any> }
            (json["variants"] as? List<MutableMap<String, Any>>)?.forEach { variant ->
                (variant["dependencies"] as? MutableList<Map<String, Any>>)?.removeAll { it["group"] == rootProject.name }
            }
            writer().use { it.write(JsonOutput.prettyPrint(JsonOutput.toJson(json))) }
        }
    }
}

tasks.named("generateMetadataFileForMavenAarPublication") {
   finalizedBy("removeDependenciesFromModuleFile")
}
```

## 8. Extra steps for Expo CLI and Expo Modules

1. Make `ReactNativeHostManager` aware with expo modules:
```diff
@@ -11,6 +11,8 @@ import com.facebook.react.defaults.DefaultReactHost.getDefaultReactHost
 import com.facebook.react.defaults.DefaultReactNativeHost
 import com.facebook.react.soloader.OpenSourceMergedSoMapping
 import com.facebook.soloader.SoLoader
+import expo.modules.ApplicationLifecycleDispatcher
+import expo.modules.ReactNativeHostWrapper
 
 class ReactNativeHostManager {
     companion object {
@@ -37,21 +39,23 @@ class ReactNativeHostManager {
             // If you opted-in for the New Architecture, we load the native entry point for this app.
             load()
         }
+        ApplicationLifecycleDispatcher.onApplicationCreate(application)


        /**
         * If your project is using ExpoModules, you can use `index` instead.
         *
         * Below module name is used when your project is using Expo CLI
         */
+        val jsMainModuleName = ".expo/.virtual-metro-entry"
 
         val reactApp = object : ReactApplication {
-            override val reactNativeHost: ReactNativeHost = object : DefaultReactNativeHost(application) {
+            override val reactNativeHost: ReactNativeHost = ReactNativeHostWrapper(application,
+                object : DefaultReactNativeHost(application) {
                     override fun getPackages(): MutableList<ReactPackage> {
                         return PackageList(application).packages
                     }
 
-                    override fun getJSMainModuleName(): String = "index"
+                    override fun getJSMainModuleName(): String = jsMainModuleName
                     override fun getBundleAssetName(): String = "index.android.bundle"
 
                     override fun getUseDeveloperSupport() = BuildConfig.DEBUG
 
                     override val isNewArchEnabled: Boolean = BuildConfig.IS_NEW_ARCHITECTURE_ENABLED
                     override val isHermesEnabled: Boolean = BuildConfig.IS_HERMES_ENABLED
-                }
+                })
 
             override val reactHost: ReactHost
                 get() = getDefaultReactHost(application, reactNativeHost)
```

2. Update your `rnbrownfield/build.gradle`:

```diff

+ reactBrownfield {
    /**
     * This will be available from `com.callstack.react.brownfield` version > 3.0.0
     * It takes care of linking expo dependencies like expo-image with your AAR module.
     *
     * Default value is false.
     */
+     isExpo = true
+ }

react {
    autolinkLibrariesWithApp()
}

@@ -76,6 +76,18 @@ dependencies {
     androidTestImplementation("androidx.test.espresso:espresso-core:3.6.1")
 }
 
/**
* This function is used in the places where we:
*
* Remove the `expo` dependency from the `module.json` and `pom.xml file. Otherwise, the
* gradle will try to resolve this and will throw an error, since this dependency won't
* be available from a remote repository.
*
* Your AAR does not need this dependency.
*/
+ fun isExpoArtifact(group: String, artifactId: String): Boolean {
+     return group == "host.exp.exponent" && artifactId == "expo"
+ }
 
 publishing {
     publications {
@@ -97,7 +109,12 @@ publishing {
                     val dependenciesNode = (asNode().get("dependencies") as groovy.util.NodeList).first() as groovy.util.Node
                     dependenciesNode.children()
                         .filterIsInstance<groovy.util.Node>()
-                        .filter { (it.get("groupId") as groovy.util.NodeList).text() == rootProject.name }
+                        .filter {
+                            val artifactId = (it["artifactId"] as groovy.util.NodeList).text()
+                            val group = (it["groupId"] as groovy.util.NodeList).text()
+
+                            (isExpoArtifact(group, artifactId) || group == rootProject.name)
+                        }
                         .forEach { dependenciesNode.remove(it) }
                 }
             }
@@ -121,7 +138,12 @@ tasks.register("removeDependenciesFromModuleFile") {
         file("$moduleBuildDir/publications/mavenAar/module.json").run {
             val json = inputStream().use { JsonSlurper().parse(it) as Map<String, Any> }
             (json["variants"] as? List<MutableMap<String, Any>>)?.forEach { variant ->
-                (variant["dependencies"] as? MutableList<Map<String, Any>>)?.removeAll { it["group"] == rootProject.name }
+                (variant["dependencies"] as? MutableList<Map<String, Any>>)?.removeAll {
+                    val module = it["module"] as String
+                    val group = it["group"] as String
+
+                    (isExpoArtifact(group, module) || group == rootProject.name)
+                }
             }
             writer().use { it.write(JsonOutput.prettyPrint(JsonOutput.toJson(json))) }
         }
```

That is all you need to change. Step 8.i is not required with Expo, you can skip it. See Step 8.ii to generate AAR.

## 9.i Set up RNEF for AAR generation (not required for Expo)

1. Add `@rnef/plugin-brownfield-android` to your dependencies
1. Update your `rnef.config.mjs`:

   ```js title="rnef.config.mjs"
   import { pluginBrownfieldAndroid } from '@rnef/plugin-brownfield-android';

   export default {
     plugins: [pluginBrownfieldAndroid()],
   };
   ```

1. Run this command to generate the final AAR:

   ```sh title="Terminal"
   rnef package:aar --variant Release --module-name rnbrownfield
   ```

1. Once the AAR is created, publish it to local Maven registry to be consumable by the native app:

   ```sh title="Terminal"
   rnef publish-local:aar --module-name rnbrownfield
   ```

## 9.ii Generate AAR when using Expo

Here you can see how to generate AAR. The link uses a script which first builds the AAR and then publish to to `mavenLocal`.
[see here](https://github.com/callstackincubator/modern-brownfield-ref/blob/b23641f3ff7c278743d35013841d5494905ba190/package.json#L14)

## 10. Add the AAR to Your Android App

> Note: You'll need an existing Android app or create a new one in Android Studio.

1. Add `mavenLocal()` to your app's dependency resolution in `settings.gradle.kts`:

   ```groovy title="settings.gradle.kts" {3}
    dependencyResolutionManagement {
        repositories {
            mavenLocal()
        }
    }
   ```

2. Add the dependency to your app's `build.gradle.kts`:

   ```groovy title="build.gradle.kts" {2}
   dependencies {
       implementation("com.callstack:rnbrownfield:0.0.1-local")
   }
   ```

3. Initialize React Native in your `MainActivity`:

   ```kotlin
   import com.callstack.rnbrownfield.ReactNativeHostManager

   class MainActivity : AppCompatActivity() {
       override fun onCreate(savedInstanceState: Bundle?) {
           super.onCreate(savedInstanceState)
           ReactNativeHostManager.initialize(this.application) {
                println("JS bundle loaded")
           }
           // ... rest of your onCreate code
       }
   }
   ```

## 11. Show the React Native UI

Add a button to your `activity_main.xml`:

```xml
<Button
    android:id="@+id/show_rn_app_btn"
    android:layout_width="wrap_content"
    android:layout_height="wrap_content"
    android:text="Show RN App"
    app:layout_constraintBottom_toBottomOf="parent"
    app:layout_constraintEnd_toEndOf="parent"
    app:layout_constraintStart_toStartOf="parent"
    app:layout_constraintTop_toTopOf="parent" />
```

Update your `MainActivity` to show the fragment:

```kotlin {2,8-13}
import com.callstack.rnbrownfield.ReactNativeHostManager
import com.callstack.reactnativebrownfield.ReactNativeFragment

class MainActivity : AppCompatActivity() {
    private lateinit var showRNAppBtn: Button

    override fun onCreate(savedInstanceState: Bundle?) {
        super.onCreate(savedInstanceState)
        ReactNativeHostManager.initialize(this.application) {
            println("JS bundle loaded")
        }

        val rnAppFragment = ReactNativeFragment.createReactNativeFragment("BrownFieldTest")
        showRNAppBtn = findViewById(R.id.show_rn_app_btn)
        showRNAppBtn.setOnClickListener {
            supportFragmentManager
                .beginTransaction()
                .replace(R.id.fragmentContainer, rnAppFragment)
                .commit()
        }
    }
}
```

Now you can run your app and test the React Native integration!

<hr/>

Optional:

If you want to get react-native in a View instead of a Fragment, you can use the following API:

```kt
val rnView = ReactNativeBrownfield.shared.createView(this.applicationContext, this, "BrownFieldTest")
```

The above returns a FrameLayout, which can be used to present RN as a View. This is most suited in situations where you want to present individual pieces of
react-native UI. For eg, if you're building a native design system library in react-native OR you want to export say a Card component to share between react-native
and the native App.

<hr/>

> Note: `brownfield-gradle-plugin` copies `.so` files to the `lib` folder. Make sure to add `**/*.so` to your .gitignore file, as to not commit these .so files. The reason is they are auto-generated each time.
