website/src/docs/brownfield/ios.mdx, before:

import { PackageManagerTabs } from 'rspress/theme';

# Integrating with iOS Apps

React Native Enterprise Framework helps you package your React Native code into files that your iOS and Android apps can use. For iOS, it creates a `.xcframework` file that you can easily add to your app.

To add React Native to your iOS app, we'll package your React Native code into an XCFramework. This way, you don't need to set up Node.js or CocoaPods in your main app.

To make the integration simpler and more powerful, we'll use the [React Native Brownfield](https://github.com/callstack/react-native-brownfield) library.

## Creating a New RNEF Project (Automated)

If you are creating a new RNEF project, you can select the `brownfield-ios` plugin:

```
> npm create @rnef/app
...
◆  What plugins do you want to start with?
│  ◼ brownfield-ios
```

to add brownfield capabilities, install dependencies. Then jump to:

- [6. Create the XCFramework](#6-create-the-xcframework).

## Integrating to An Existing RNEF Project (Manual)

If you have an existing RNEF project, follow the instructions below.

### 1. Create a New Framework in React Native app's Xcode:

1. Open your React Native project's `ios/<project_name>.xcworkspace` in Xcode
1. Add a new target by clicking File > New > Target
1. Choose the `Framework` template
   ![Framework Target](/brownfield_framework_target.png)
1. Give your framework a unique name. You'll use this name when adding it to your main app
1. Right-click the framework folder and select `Convert to Group`. CocoaPods doesn't work properly with references. Perform this step for both `<FrameworkName>` and `<FrameworkName>Tests` folders.
   ![The menu that appears when user right clicks on the generated framework folder](/brownfield_convert_to_group.png)
1. Set these build settings for your framework:

   | Build Setting                    | Value | What it does                                                                                      |
   | -------------------------------- | ----- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
   | Build Libraries for Distribution | YES   | Creates a module interface for Swift. Also checks if the framework works with your Xcode version. |
   | User Script Sandboxing           | NO    | Lets scripts modify files, which we need to create the JavaScript bundle.                         |
   | Skip Install                     | NO    | Makes sure Xcode creates the framework files we need.                                             |
   | Enable Module Verifier           | NO    | Skips testing the framework during build, which makes builds faster.                              |

### 2. Update CocoaPods in your React Native app:

1. Add your new framework to `ios/Podfile`:

   ```ruby title="Podfile" {3-5}
   target '<project_name>' do
     # Add these lines
     target '<framework_target_name>' do
       inherit! :complete
     end
   end
   ```

### 3. Add the Bundle Script:

1. In Xcode, click on your React Native app target
1. Go to Build Phases
1. Find the `Bundle React Native code and images` step
   ![Bundle React Native code and images build phase](/bundle_phase.png)
1. Copy the script from there
1. Click on your framework target
1. Go to Build Phases
1. Click the + button and choose `New Run Script Phase`
   ![New Run Script Phase](/new_run_script.png)
1. Paste the script you copied
1. Name the phase `Bundle React Native code and images`
1. Add these files to the script's input files:
   - `$(SRCROOT)/.xcode.env.local`
   - `$(SRCROOT)/.xcode.env`

### 4. Create the Framework's Public Interface:

1. Install React Native Brownfield library:
   <PackageManagerTabs command="install @callstack/react-native-brownfield" />
1. Create a new Swift file in your framework folder using Xcode with the following contents:
   ```swift
   // Export helpers from @callstack/react-native-brownfield library
   @_exported import ReactBrownfield
   // Initializes a Bundle instance that points at the framework target.
   public let ReactNativeBundle = Bundle(for: InternalClassForBundle.self)
   class InternalClassForBundle {}
   ```

### 5. Setup RNEF's brownfield plugin:

1. Add `@rnef/plugin-brownfield-ios` to your React Native project
   <PackageManagerTabs command="install @rnef/plugin-brownfield-ios" />
1. Add this to your `rnef.config.mjs`:

   ```js title="rnef.config.mjs"
   import { pluginBrownfieldIos } from '@rnef/plugin-brownfield-ios';

   export default {
     plugins: [
       pluginBrownfieldIos(),
       // ...
     ],
   };
   ```

### 6. Create the XCFramework

Run the following command in Terminal:

```sh title="Terminal"
rnef package:ios --scheme <framework_target_name> --configuration Release
```

### 7. Add the Framework to Your iOS App:

1. Open the `.rnef/cache/ios/package` directory and drag the following files into your app's Xcode project (you can select all at once):

   ```
   .rnef/cache/ios/package
   ├── hermes.xcframework                  # JavaScript runtime
   ├── ReactBrownfield.xcframework         # React Native Brownfield library
   └── <framework_target_name>.xcframework # Your framework target
   ```

   ![Linked frameworks in Xcode sidebar](/frameworks_sidebar.png)

   :::info
   Xcode builds depend on files being referenced in the project file. If you create a new source file without using Xcode, your file is not going to be referenced by the project.
   :::

1. Initialize React Native in `AppDelegate.swift` and show it using `ReactNativeViewController` available from React Native Brownfield library:

   ```swift title="AppDelegate.swift" {6-9}
   import <framework_target_name>

   @main
   class AppDelegate: UIResponder, UIApplicationDelegate {
       func application(_ application: UIApplication, didFinishLaunchingWithOptions launchOptions: [UIApplication.LaunchOptionsKey: Any]?) -> Bool {
           // Initialize React Native
           ReactNativeBrownfield.shared.bundle = ReactNativeBundle
           ReactNativeBrownfield.shared.startReactNative(onBundleLoaded: {
               print("React Native bundle loaded")
           }, launchOptions: launchOptions)

           // Add `window` property required by React Native
           window = UIWindow(frame: UIScreen.main.bounds)

           // Create VC that calls your module by name
           let reactNativeVC = ReactNativeViewController(moduleName: "Enterprise")

           // Display the view as full window or anyhow you need
           window?.rootViewController = reactNativeVC
           window?.makeKeyAndVisible()
       }
   ```

   :::note
   Instead of using `AppDelegate` you can also use `SceneDelegate`
   :::

   ### 8. Run your native iOS App

   Now that you have everything set up, you can run your app in Debug or Release configuration, and it will display a React Native app we just packaged with `package:ios` command.

   #### Debug configuration

   When running in Debug, React Native Brownfield will expect you to run a JS dev server.

   You can do so by running `start` command in your Terminal app:

   ```shell
   npx rnef start
   ```

   #### Release configuration

   When running in Release, React Native Brownfield will load the JS bundle (`main.jsbundle`) directly from the release XCFramework file without requiring you to run any JavaScript tooling.

Commit message:

docs(brownfield): mention copying ReactBrownfield in step 6 (#477)

website/src/docs/brownfield/ios.mdx, after:

import { PackageManagerTabs } from 'rspress/theme';

# Integrating with iOS Apps

React Native Enterprise Framework helps you package your React Native code into files that your iOS and Android apps can use. For iOS, it creates a `.xcframework` file that you can easily add to your app.

To add React Native to your iOS app, we'll package your React Native code into an XCFramework. This way, you don't need to set up Node.js or CocoaPods in your main app.

To make the integration simpler and more powerful, we'll use the [React Native Brownfield](https://github.com/callstack/react-native-brownfield) library.

## Creating a New RNEF Project (Automated)

If you are creating a new RNEF project, you can select the `brownfield-ios` plugin:

```
> npm create @rnef/app
...
◆  What plugins do you want to start with?
│  ◼ brownfield-ios
```

to add brownfield capabilities, install dependencies. Then jump to:

- [6. Create the XCFramework](#6-create-the-xcframework).

## Integrating to An Existing RNEF Project (Manual)

If you have an existing RNEF project, follow the instructions below.

### 1. Create a New Framework in React Native app's Xcode:

1. Open your React Native project's `ios/<project_name>.xcworkspace` in Xcode
1. Add a new target by clicking File > New > Target
1. Choose the `Framework` template
   ![Framework Target](/brownfield_framework_target.png)
1. Give your framework a unique name. You'll use this name when adding it to your main app
1. Right-click the framework folder and select `Convert to Group`. CocoaPods doesn't work properly with references. Perform this step for both `<FrameworkName>` and `<FrameworkName>Tests` folders.
   ![The menu that appears when user right clicks on the generated framework folder](/brownfield_convert_to_group.png)
1. Set these build settings for your framework:

   | Build Setting                    | Value | What it does                                                                                      |
   | -------------------------------- | ----- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
   | Build Libraries for Distribution | YES   | Creates a module interface for Swift. Also checks if the framework works with your Xcode version. |
   | User Script Sandboxing           | NO    | Lets scripts modify files, which we need to create the JavaScript bundle.                         |
   | Skip Install                     | NO    | Makes sure Xcode creates the framework files we need.                                             |
   | Enable Module Verifier           | NO    | Skips testing the framework during build, which makes builds faster.                              |

### 2. Update CocoaPods in your React Native app:

1. Add your new framework to `ios/Podfile`:

   ```ruby title="Podfile" {3-5}
   target '<project_name>' do
     # Add these lines
     target '<framework_target_name>' do
       inherit! :complete
     end
   end
   ```

### 3. Add the Bundle Script:

1. In Xcode, click on your React Native app target
1. Go to Build Phases
1. Find the `Bundle React Native code and images` step
   ![Bundle React Native code and images build phase](/bundle_phase.png)
1. Copy the script from there
1. Click on your framework target
1. Go to Build Phases
1. Click the + button and choose `New Run Script Phase`
   ![New Run Script Phase](/new_run_script.png)
1. Paste the script you copied
1. Name the phase `Bundle React Native code and images`
1. Add these files to the script's input files:
   - `$(SRCROOT)/.xcode.env.local`
   - `$(SRCROOT)/.xcode.env`

### 4. Create the Framework's Public Interface:

1. Install React Native Brownfield library:
   <PackageManagerTabs command="install @callstack/react-native-brownfield" />
1. Create a new Swift file in your framework folder using Xcode with the following contents:
   ```swift
   // Export helpers from @callstack/react-native-brownfield library
   @_exported import ReactBrownfield
   // Initializes a Bundle instance that points at the framework target.
   public let ReactNativeBundle = Bundle(for: InternalClassForBundle.self)
   class InternalClassForBundle {}
   ```

### 5. Setup RNEF's brownfield plugin:

1. Add `@rnef/plugin-brownfield-ios` to your React Native project
   <PackageManagerTabs command="install @rnef/plugin-brownfield-ios" />
1. Add this to your `rnef.config.mjs`:

   ```js title="rnef.config.mjs"
   import { pluginBrownfieldIos } from '@rnef/plugin-brownfield-ios';

   export default {
     plugins: [
       pluginBrownfieldIos(),
       // ...
     ],
   };
   ```

### 6. Create the XCFramework

Run the following command in Terminal to compile frameworks for Hermes, React Native Brownfield library, and your app:

```sh title="Terminal"
rnef package:ios --scheme <framework_target_name> --configuration Release
```

:::warning
If you want to run the React Native app independently from the native iOS app, you'll still need to run the `package:ios` command and add the `ReactBrownfield.xcframework` to the project, as instructed in [step 7](#7-add-the-framework-to-your-ios-app).
Otherwise, the `run:ios` command will fail with:

```
error: underlying Objective-C module 'ReactBrownfield' not found
```

:::

### 7. Add the Framework to Your iOS App:

1. Open the `.rnef/cache/ios/package` directory and drag the following files into your app's Xcode project (you can select all at once):

   ```
   .rnef/cache/ios/package
   ├── hermes.xcframework                  # JavaScript runtime
   ├── ReactBrownfield.xcframework         # React Native Brownfield library
   └── <framework_target_name>.xcframework # Your framework target
   ```

   ![Linked frameworks in Xcode sidebar](/frameworks_sidebar.png)

   :::info
   Xcode builds depend on files being referenced in the project file. If you create a new source file without using Xcode, your file is not going to be referenced by the project.
   :::

1. Initialize React Native in `AppDelegate.swift` and show it using `ReactNativeViewController` available from React Native Brownfield library:

   ```swift title="AppDelegate.swift" {6-9}
   import <framework_target_name>

   @main
   class AppDelegate: UIResponder, UIApplicationDelegate {
       func application(_ application: UIApplication, didFinishLaunchingWithOptions launchOptions: [UIApplication.LaunchOptionsKey: Any]?) -> Bool {
           // Initialize React Native
           ReactNativeBrownfield.shared.bundle = ReactNativeBundle
           ReactNativeBrownfield.shared.startReactNative(onBundleLoaded: {
               print("React Native bundle loaded")
           }, launchOptions: launchOptions)

           // Add `window` property required by React Native
           window = UIWindow(frame: UIScreen.main.bounds)

           // Create VC that calls your module by name
           let reactNativeVC = ReactNativeViewController(moduleName: "Enterprise")

           // Display the view as full window or anyhow you need
           window?.rootViewController = reactNativeVC
           window?.makeKeyAndVisible()
       }
   ```

   :::note
   Instead of using `AppDelegate` you can also use `SceneDelegate`
   :::

   ### 8. Run your native iOS App

   Now that you have everything set up, you can run your app in Debug or Release configuration, and it will display a React Native app we just packaged with `package:ios` command.

   #### Debug configuration

   When running in Debug, React Native Brownfield will expect you to run a JS dev server.

   You can do so by running `start` command in your Terminal app:

   ```shell
   npx rnef start
   ```

   #### Release configuration

   When running in Release, React Native Brownfield will load the JS bundle (`main.jsbundle`) directly from the release XCFramework file without requiring you to run any JavaScript tooling.
