website/src/docs/getting-started/migrating-from-community-cli.mdx, before:

import { PackageManagerTabs } from 'rspress/theme';

# Migrating from Community CLI

1. Install dev dependencies:

   <PackageManagerTabs command="install -D rock @rock-js/plugin-metro @rock-js/platform-android @rock-js/platform-ios" />

1. Remove `@react-native-community/cli` and related packages.

   <PackageManagerTabs command="remove @react-native-community/cli @react-native-community/cli-platform-ios @react-native-community/cli-platform-android" />

1. Add `.rock/` folder with caches to `.gitignore`:

   ```txt title=".gitignore"
   .rock/
   ```

1. Add `rock.config.mjs` file:

   ```js title="rock.config.mjs"
   // @ts-check
   import { platformIOS } from '@rock-js/platform-ios';
   import { platformAndroid } from '@rock-js/platform-android';
   import { pluginMetro } from '@rock-js/plugin-metro';

   /** @type {import('rock').Config} */
   export default {
     bundler: pluginMetro(),
     platforms: {
       ios: platformIOS(),
       android: platformAndroid(),
     },
     remoteCacheProvider: 'github-actions',
   };
   ```

   Move any `project` config from `react-native.config.js` to platform arguments in `rock.config.mjs`, for example:

   ```js title="react-native.config.js
   module.exports = {
     project: {
       ios: {
         sourceDir: 'custom-source',
       },
       android: {
         appName: 'custom',
       },
     },
   };
   ```

   translates to:

   ```js title="rock.config.mjs"
   export default {
     platforms: {
       ios: platformIOS({ sourceDir: 'custom-source' }),
       android: platformAndroid({ appName: 'custom' }),
     },
   };
   ```

1. Update Android files:

   In `android/app/build.gradle` set the `cliFile` with the new path:

   ```groovy title="android/app/build.gradle" {2}
   // cliFile = file("../../node_modules/react-native/cli.js")
   cliFile = file("../../node_modules/rock/dist/src/bin.js")
   ```

   In `android/settings.gradle` change:

   ```groovy title="android/settings.gradle" {2}
   // extensions.configure(com.facebook.react.ReactSettingsExtension){ ex -> ex.autolinkLibrariesFromCommand() }
   extensions.configure(com.facebook.react.ReactSettingsExtension){ ex -> ex.autolinkLibrariesFromCommand(['npx', 'rock', 'config', '-p', 'android']) }
   ```

1. Update iOS files:

   In `ios/Podfile` change:

   ```ruby title="ios/Podfile" {2}
   # config = use_native_modules!
   config = use_native_modules!(['npx', 'rock', 'config', '-p', 'ios'])
   ```

   In "Bundle React Native code and images" Build Phase in Xcode add:

   ```shell title="Bundle React Native code and images build phase" {2-9}
   set -e
   if [[ -f "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env" ]]; then
   source "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env"
   fi
   if [[ -f "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local" ]]; then
   source "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local"
   fi
   export CONFIG_CMD="dummy-workaround-value"
   export CLI_PATH="$("$NODE_BINARY" --print "require('path').dirname(require.resolve('rock/package.json')) + '/dist/src/bin.js'")"
   WITH_ENVIRONMENT="$REACT_NATIVE_PATH/scripts/xcode/with-environment.sh"
   ```

1. Cleanup native files:

   ```sh
   git clean -fdx ios/ android/
   ```

1. Update scripts in `package.json`:

   ```json title="package.json"
   {
     "scripts": {
       "start": "rock start",
       "android": "rock run:android",
       "ios": "rock run:ios"
     }
   }
   ```

1. Run new commands:

   ```sh
   npx rock run:android
   npx rock run:ios
   ```

   Additionally rename flags:
   - `--mode` to `--variant` for Android commands
   - `--mode` to `--configuration` for iOS commands
   - `--buildFolder` to `--build-folder` for iOS commands
   - `--appId` to `--app-id` for Android commands
   - `--appIdSuffix` to `--app-id-suffix` for Android commands

   And remove unsupported flags:
   - `--interactive`/`-i` – the CLI will prompt you for input where necessary
   - `--list-devices` - when no devices are connected, you'll be prompt with a full device selection

1. Configure GitHub Actions for remote builds in your workflow

   iOS:

   ```yaml title=".github/workflows/build-ios"
   - name: Rock Remote Build - iOS simulator
     id: rock-remote-build-ios
     uses: callstackincubator/ios@v2
     with:
       destination: simulator
       github-token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
       configuration: Debug
   ```

   Android:

   ```yaml title=".github/workflows/build-android"
   - name: Rock Remote Build - Android
     id: rock-remote-build-android
     uses: callstackincubator/android@v2
     with:
       variant: debug
       github-token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
   ```

   For more setup options see [GitHub Actions configuration](../remote-cache/github-actions/configuration.md)

Commit message:

docs: add automatic migration section to community CLI guide

website/src/docs/getting-started/migrating-from-community-cli.mdx, after:

import { PackageManagerTabs } from 'rspress/theme';

# Migrating from Community CLI

##  Automatic Migration

You can automate all the migration steps below by running the following command in your existing React Native project. The CLI will detect your project and guide you through the migration process interactively, automatically updating all necessary files and configurations.

<PackageManagerTabs command="create rock" />

##  Manual Migration

If you prefer to do it manually or encounter any issues, follow the steps below.

1. Install dev dependencies:

   <PackageManagerTabs command="install -D rock @rock-js/plugin-metro @rock-js/platform-android @rock-js/platform-ios" />

1. Remove `@react-native-community/cli` and related packages.

   <PackageManagerTabs command="remove @react-native-community/cli @react-native-community/cli-platform-ios @react-native-community/cli-platform-android" />

1. Add `.rock/` folder with caches to `.gitignore`:

   ```txt title=".gitignore"
   .rock/
   ```

1. Add `rock.config.mjs` file:

   ```js title="rock.config.mjs"
   // @ts-check
   import { platformIOS } from '@rock-js/platform-ios';
   import { platformAndroid } from '@rock-js/platform-android';
   import { pluginMetro } from '@rock-js/plugin-metro';

   /** @type {import('rock').Config} */
   export default {
     bundler: pluginMetro(),
     platforms: {
       ios: platformIOS(),
       android: platformAndroid(),
     },
     remoteCacheProvider: 'github-actions',
   };
   ```

   Move any `project` config from `react-native.config.js` to platform arguments in `rock.config.mjs`, for example:

   ```js title="react-native.config.js
   module.exports = {
     project: {
       ios: {
         sourceDir: 'custom-source',
       },
       android: {
         appName: 'custom',
       },
     },
   };
   ```

   translates to:

   ```js title="rock.config.mjs"
   export default {
     platforms: {
       ios: platformIOS({ sourceDir: 'custom-source' }),
       android: platformAndroid({ appName: 'custom' }),
     },
   };
   ```

1. Update Android files:

   In `android/app/build.gradle` set the `cliFile` with the new path:

   ```groovy title="android/app/build.gradle" {2}
   // cliFile = file("../../node_modules/react-native/cli.js")
   cliFile = file("../../node_modules/rock/dist/src/bin.js")
   ```

   In `android/settings.gradle` change:

   ```groovy title="android/settings.gradle" {2}
   // extensions.configure(com.facebook.react.ReactSettingsExtension){ ex -> ex.autolinkLibrariesFromCommand() }
   extensions.configure(com.facebook.react.ReactSettingsExtension){ ex -> ex.autolinkLibrariesFromCommand(['npx', 'rock', 'config', '-p', 'android']) }
   ```

1. Update iOS files:

   In `ios/Podfile` change:

   ```ruby title="ios/Podfile" {2}
   # config = use_native_modules!
   config = use_native_modules!(['npx', 'rock', 'config', '-p', 'ios'])
   ```

   In "Bundle React Native code and images" Build Phase in Xcode add:

   ```shell title="Bundle React Native code and images build phase" {2-9}
   set -e
   if [[ -f "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env" ]]; then
   source "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env"
   fi
   if [[ -f "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local" ]]; then
   source "$PODS_ROOT/../.xcode.env.local"
   fi
   export CONFIG_CMD="dummy-workaround-value"
   export CLI_PATH="$("$NODE_BINARY" --print "require('path').dirname(require.resolve('rock/package.json')) + '/dist/src/bin.js'")"
   WITH_ENVIRONMENT="$REACT_NATIVE_PATH/scripts/xcode/with-environment.sh"
   ```

1. Cleanup native files:

   ```sh
   git clean -fdx ios/ android/
   ```

1. Update scripts in `package.json`:

   ```json title="package.json"
   {
     "scripts": {
       "start": "rock start",
       "android": "rock run:android",
       "ios": "rock run:ios"
     }
   }
   ```

1. Run new commands:

   ```sh
   npx rock run:android
   npx rock run:ios
   ```

   Additionally rename flags:
   - `--mode` to `--variant` for Android commands
   - `--mode` to `--configuration` for iOS commands
   - `--buildFolder` to `--build-folder` for iOS commands
   - `--appId` to `--app-id` for Android commands
   - `--appIdSuffix` to `--app-id-suffix` for Android commands

   And remove unsupported flags:
   - `--interactive`/`-i` – the CLI will prompt you for input where necessary
   - `--list-devices` - when no devices are connected, you'll be prompt with a full device selection

1. Configure GitHub Actions for remote builds in your workflow

   iOS:

   ```yaml title=".github/workflows/build-ios"
   - name: Rock Remote Build - iOS simulator
     id: rock-remote-build-ios
     uses: callstackincubator/ios@v2
     with:
       destination: simulator
       github-token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
       configuration: Debug
   ```

   Android:

   ```yaml title=".github/workflows/build-android"
   - name: Rock Remote Build - Android
     id: rock-remote-build-android
     uses: callstackincubator/android@v2
     with:
       variant: debug
       github-token: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
   ```

   For more setup options see [GitHub Actions configuration](../remote-cache/github-actions/configuration.md)
